# Proposal of an Efficient Pyrolysis Plant for Conversion of Microplastic Waste to Bio Fuel

Enclosed is a proposal of an efficient pyrolysis plant for conversion of microplastic waste and other biomass to biofuel. The objective of this project report is to analyze current recycling and microplastic removal options and design a process suitable for the City of Toronto that can be environmentally and economically beneficial for the local economy.


The scope of this report contains a technology review, process selection, equipment selection, equipment design & sizing, a developed process flow diagram, control system, preliminary process description, mass and energy calculations, environmental impact, risk assessment, and an economic evaluation. It is expected that a preliminary model of a fast pyrolysis plant that could be successfully be built to scale using this report as a conceptual guideline.

# Abstract

Environmental pollution and the utilization of fossil fuels has resulted in severe climate change and global warming over the last century. In order to combat these problems and undo some of the environmental damage, a race to find sustainable sources of energy has emerged. Biomass is one of the only renewable carbon containing energy sources capable of being converted into gas, liquid, and solid products. The biofuels derived from biomass are regarded as the only renewable fuels that can partially substitute fossil fuels. In this process, biomass will be created from the pyrolysis of waste collected from Ashbridge’s Bay Wastewater Treatment Plant to produce bio-gasoline, bio-naphtha, bio-kerosene, and bio-gasoil through fractional distillation. Screenings will be taken from the preliminary treatment and microplastics will be removed from the effluent using highly efficient rotary disc filters. The process will be able to reduce about 1680 tonnes of waste sent to landfills every year through repurposing preliminary screenings and remove about 9950 kg of microplastics that would otherwise be polluting Lake Ontario every year. There are economic and environmental benefits to creating high-value products from cheap plastic waste. By making cheap plastic valuable, it can provide incentives to governments and organizations to clean up plastic pollution in the environment. This disposal of this solid waste removed during pre-treatment operations accounts for about $357,000/year in fees, and it also contributes a large amount of waste for the City of Toronto, leading to further environmental pollution. This report will discuss the market analysis, detailed equipment selection and design, and the economic real-world benefit of implementing such a process in the City of Toronto. The biofuels generated in this process can replace some of the commercial uses for heating oil, gasoline, and crude oil, generating sustainable energy and reducing environmental damage caused by microplastic pollution and landfill waste.
